# Certbot-Manager

Certbot-Manager is a Python-based tool for renewing SSL/TLS certificates generated by Certbot for multiple domains.

## Requirements

Certobt-Manager is a tool to check if the domains listed in a certbot-generated SSL/TLS certificate meet the necessary requirements to renew the certificate. The tool uses the Apache plugin of Certbot for testing purposes.

The tool consists of a Makefile that executes various Python scripts through different rules.

* Python 3.6 or higher
* Apache with the Certbot plugin installed
* Certbot-generated SSL/TLS certificate with multiple domains
* GNU Make

You can install Python and Certbot using your operating system's package manager or by downloading them from their respective websites. Make are typically pre-installed on most Unix-based systems.

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/certobot-manager.git
cd certbot-manager
```


2. Create a virtual environment for the project and check certbot requirements:

```
make build
```

3. Set the absolute path to the SSL/TLS certificate in .env. You can do this executing:

```
make cert_path path=/path/to/cert_file
```


4. Execute the renew rule:

```
make certbot-renew
```

In case of an error in the renewal of the certificate, an email informing the error will be written in the tmp folder, in the root of the project. 
If the problem is due to a domain that could not be renewed, it will be reported in the same email. 
This program does not yet have the functionality to send this email.
